In this lesson, I'm going to give you a very basic introduction to networking.
If you already know about switches and routers and network topology, you can just skip right on ahead
to the next lesson.
But if you're brand new to networking, then I'm going to give you a quick overview here. So, let's say that we've
got an office which is in New York for our company. In that office,
I'm going to have end hosts like PCs, a server, and a printer like you can see here, and they're going
to need to be able to communicate with each other.
So for that, I'm going to put in a network switch, and I'm going to cable my devices to that switch with
Ethernet cables, and that's what a switch looks like.
There's a Cisco switch, you can see it's got a lot of ports in there so that I'm going to be able to
connect in a lot of devices.
The switch is what allows connectivity on my Local Area Network (LAN). In that office in New York,
maybe I've also got a laptop which is going to connect in over our Wireless Network.
So for that, I'm also going to have a Wireless Access Point which is also going to connect in to our switch,
and that's what a Wireless Access Point looks like.
So I've got all my devices in New York now,
they can all talk to each other.
I've built a Local Area Network. A Local Area Network is a network that connects devices which are in
the same local area,
like in a single office or maybe a university campus.
Okay, I don't just want my end hosts in my office to be able to talk to each other,
they're going to want to communicate with other devices out on the Internet as well.
So for connectivity out there, I'm going to need a bit more of an advanced device which is a router. A router
is able to make advanced routing decisions to route traffic between different areas of your network.
That's why it's called a router, and this is what a router looks like.
You can see it's pretty similar to a switch,
same kind of size.
Typically it will have the less physical ports on there, and it will support different types of ports
so that it can connect different types of networks as well.
Next thing we know that there's going to be bad guys on the Internet, hackers who are going to try to
attack us,
so we need to guard against that.
So we're going to put a firewall in place, and this is what a firewall looks like.
Again, you'll see that our different network devices tend to look very similar to each other, but they fulfill
different tasks on the network. The firewall secures the different parts of our network from each other.
Okay,
so that was our New York office, the Local Area Network and it's connected to the Internet. In a larger
company, we're not going to just have one office in New York. In our example here,
let's say we've also got an office in Boston as well. In Boston, we're going to have a similar kind of
setup, the same kind of devices in there. We're going to have a Local Area Network in Boston,
and we've also got local connectivity to the Internet from Boston as well.
Now, because we're the same company, I'm going to want to have connectivity between my New York and my
Boston offices.
I want the end hosts in both those sites to be able to communicate with each other.
It is possible that they could communicate securely over the Internet
If I set that up, but another way of doing it is I could maybe put in a dedicated connection between my two
routers in both sites,
and that's going to give me my Wide Area Network (WAN) connection between my different offices.
Okay,
so that's a really quick overview of networking, and the point of networking is to allow that connectivity
between our different end hosts on the network.
So looking now at the characteristics of a network, we've got the topology.
Let's just go back to that previous slide.
This is an example of a network topology diagram.
The topology is how the devices are connected up to each other. Other characteristic is the speed
of the network.
Typically, the faster the network is, the more it's going to cost you,
and cost is itself a characteristic as well.
Things that will affect the cost are the type of devices you have in there, the size of a network,
the different technologies you're using, etc. Other characteristics are security, I mentioned the firewall
in the previous slide.
We're not going to just have security in our firewall, though.
We also have security features on our routers and on our switches, and we can have other security devices
such as Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS) as well.
Next, we have availability.
We're going to want to make sure that our network always stays up, and for mission critical components
in the network,
typically, we don't want any single points of failure.
So, we will double up on those components so that if anyone fails, we've got an alternative component
that will still be up and running. Scalability is also important.
We want to design the network in such a way that it's easy for it to grow with our company without requiring
a redesign. And reliability,
similar to availability, where we want to make sure again that the network is going to be reliable, but it's
going to continue to work.